There was a long silence. Rich dad was smiling. I did not comprehend everything he said that day.
But as with most great teachers, whose words continue to teach for years, often long after they're
gone, his words are still with me today.
"I've been a little cruel today," said rich dad. "Cruel for a reason. I want you to always remember this
talk. I want you to always think of Mrs. Martin. I want you always to think of the donkey. Never
forget, because your two emotions, fear and desire, can lead you into life's biggest trap, if you're not
aware of them controlling your thinking. To spend your life living in fear, never exploring your
dreams, is cruel. To work hard for money, thinking that money will buy you things that will make
you happy is also cruel. To wake up in the middle of the night terrified about paying bills is a horrible
way to live. To live a life dictated by the size of a paycheck is not really a life. Thinking that a job
will make you feel secure is lying to yourself. That's cruel, and that's the trap I want you to avoid, if
possible. I've seen how money runs people's lives. Don't let that happen to you. Please don't let
money run your life."
A softball rolled under our table. Rich dad picked it up and threw it back.
"So what does ignorance have to do with greed and fear?" I asked.
"Because it is ignorance about money that causes so much greed and so much fear," said rich dad.
"Let me give you some examples. A doctor, wanting more money to better provide for his family,
raises his fees. By raising his fees, it makes health care more expensive for everyone. Now, it hurts
the poor people the most, so poor people have worse health than those with money.
"Because the doctors raise their rates, the attorneys raise their rates. Because the attorneys' rates
have gone up, schoolteachers want a raise, which raises our taxes, and on and on and on. Soon, there
will be such a horrifying gap between the rich and the poor that chaos will break out and another
great civilization will collapse. Great civilizations collapsed when the gap between the haves and
havenots was too great. America is on the same course, proving once again that history repeats itself,
because we do not learn from history. We only memorize historical dates and names, not the lesson.
